.TH dns2sqlite 1 LOCAL

.SH NAME
.B dns2sqlite
- a tool for organizing DNS traffic into searchable sqlite databases (part of DNS2db) 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dns2sqlite
[ \-\-help | -h ] [ \-\-show_schema | -s ] [ \-\-version | -v ] 
 [ \-\-append | -a ] [ \-\-queries_only | -q ]
 [ \-\-replies_only | -r ] [ \-\-database | -d dbf ]
 [ \-\-db_overwrite | -o ] [ \-\-interval | -i min ]
 [ \-\-db_folder | -f dir ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
Linux / BSD 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dns2sqlite
is a part of the DNS2db distribution. This command converts networkpackets to an sqlite3 database.
The database format is specified in tabledefs.sql that is supplied with the dns2db distribution.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B --help | -h
prints commandline help
.TP
.B --version | -v 
prints the current version
.TP
.B --append | -a
appends to existing database files instead of failing
.TP
.B --db_overwrite | -o
overwrites existing database files instead of failing
.TP
.B --show_schema | -s
show the sql generating the tables in each database file
.TP
.B --queries_only | -q
only store query packets
.TP
.B --replies_only | -r
only store reply packets
.TP
.B --database | -d
specifies the prefix for the database filenames. eg 
-d FOO would produce files named FOO-YYYYMMDDHHMM.db
.TP
.B --interval | -i min
specifies the split interval in minutes. The split is always made on an even split interval. eg. starting with -i 5 on 12:03:23 will produce a file named prefix-YYYYMMDD1200.db and will split at 12:05:00.  
.TP
.B --db_folder | -f dir
specifies the destination database folder
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
The following command reads the file output_from_tracedns.ascii and puts all queries it into database files named 
.RS 0
/foo/dbfiles/YYYYMMDD/FOO-YYYYMMDDHHMM.db splitting into a new file every five minutes.

.TP
dns2sqlite -d FOO -i 5 \\
 -f /foo/dbfiles/ -q output_from_tracedns.ascii
.SH AUTHOR
\ .SE (The Internet Infrastructure Foundation) - opensource.iis.se
